Suspended from the G8 and facing the weight of Western sanctions, Russia npresident Vladimir Putin need not feel lonely. He is still welcome in one nprominent club of nations: the BRICS group.His allies in the five-member bloc of nations – including China, India, nBrazil and South Africa – are refusing to abandon him. Their foreign ministers nmet on Monday in The Hague and announced that they rejected the use of sanctions nin the Ukraine crisis.The bloc also criticized the suggestion that Russia should be suspended from nthe G20 summit this year. The summit is due to be held in Brisbane in November, nand the host Australian government has hinted that Mr. Putin might be banned nfrom attending.The statement by the BRICS ministers makes clear that the leading nations in nthe developing world have no appetite for the Western attempts to apply heavy npressure on Moscow over its annexation of Crimea.While the statement did not mention Russia by name, its criticism of nsanctions was aimed at the United States, Canada and the European Union, which nhave imposed sanctions on Russian officials in recent days. It also seemed to nrefer to Russia’s counter-sanctions against a handful of U.S. officials.The escalation of hostile language, sanctions and counter-sanctions, and nforce does not contribute to a sustainable and peaceful solution, according to ninternational law, including the principles and purposes of the United Nations nCharter, the statement said.BRICS countries agreed that the challenges that exist within the regions of nthe BRICS countries must be addressed within the fold of the United Nations in a ncalm and level– headed manner.The nations said they noted with concern the proposal to use the G20 summit nas another weapon in the crisis. No single member of the G20 can unilaterally nmake its decisions, they said.The BRICS group of nations was originally an economic club, but it has ngradually moved into political and security issues, becoming in many ways a ncounter-weight to Western-dominated blocs such as the G8 and G20.Within the BRICS nations, there are private disagreements over Russia’s nconduct in Ukraine. Countries such as China, strongly opposed to the nindependence of Tibet and Taiwan, are reluctant to endorse a unilateral nRussian-imposed change to Ukraine’s borders.But since the Ukraine crisis began, Russia’s partners in BRICS have all taken ngreat pains to remain studiously neutral, refusing to criticize Mr. Putin’s nactions in any way.In a speech in the Kremlin last week, Mr. Putin praised China and India for ntheir support. We are grateful to the people of China, whose leadership sees nthe situation in Crimea in all its historical and political integrity, he said. nWe highly appreciate India’s restraint and objectivity.Canadian citizenship and immigration minister Chris Alexander, a former nCanadian diplomat in Moscow, rejected any suggestion that the BRICS nations were ntacitly supporting Russia. He noted that the BRICS statement had also opposed nforce, which he interpreted as a criticism of Russia’s actions. In a series of ntweets on Monday, he said the statement had damned Mr. Putin with faint npraise.But a different interpretation was offered by Roland Paris, an international naffairs expert at the University of Ottawa. He said the BRICS statement was ndefinitely not supporting the West’s actions in the Ukraine crisis, and its nvague reference to force was far from a condemnation of Russia’s nactions.