IF TODAY IS YOUR BIRTHDAYYour No. 1 one aim for the coming 12 months should be to spend more quality time with your loved ones. Not that you don’t spend time with them now but you always seem to be coming and going. Why the big rush? Live in and for the moment.ARIES (March 21 - April 20):You are not the kind to turn away someone who is down on their luck, but watch out you don’t get conned by a sob story today. Sadly not everyone is as honest as you, so check the facts before even thinking of parting with cash.TAURUS (April 21 - May 21):You may be a bit hesitant and suspicious today but that’s okay. The thing to remember is that the cosmos is very much on your side at the moment, so you can afford to take a risk – or not, as you see fit.GEMINI (May 22 - June 21):If you don’t feel like socializing today then don’t force yourself. You are entitled to your own space and if others find that hard to understand then they are not very smart. Give yourself some time to meditate on and plan for the future.CANCER (June 22 - July 23):No matter what happened and who was to blame there is no point regretting what happened yesterday because you cannot go back and change it. What you can do, of course, is to make tomorrow better. Make that your aim.LEO (July 24 - Aug. 23):It’s good that you know how to be assertive when dealing with important people but the planets warn you must not go too far. If you break the rules over the next 24 hours someone higher up the ladder than you will make you pay for it.VIRGO (Aug. 24 - Sept. 23):You have absolutely nothing to worry about but for some strange reason you have this feeling of impending disaster. Ignore it. Most likely it is just your mind playing tricks on you – and even if it isn’t, what happens will be no big deal.LIBRA (Sept. 24 - Oct. 23):Whatever else you do over the next 24 hours don’t cut corners or break rules, because you won’t get away with it. Resist the temptation to do anything dishonest, not just because it is dishonest but also because you really don’t need to.SCORPIO (Oct. 24 - Nov. 22):The sun in your opposite sign of Taurus means, among other things, that you have to put up with people who annoy you. Don’t be tempted to argue with them, about anything, because if you do the situation may quickly get out of hand.SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23 - Dec. 21):Don’t think badly of yourself if you have to admit that you have failed to reach a target of some sort. The fact is you tried – when so many other people never even get started – and that alone makes you some kind of hero.CAPRICORN (Dec. 22 - Jan. 20):Most things seem to be going well for you at the moment, and that’s good, but the planets warn you must not get too content with your lot and drift along without trying. When things are going good you should be aiming for great!AQUARIUS (Jan. 21 - Feb. 19):Don’t worry if you lose out in some way over the next 24 hours because you will more than make up for it later in the month. If something seems to be slipping from your grasp just let it go. Change is always good in the long-term.PISCES (Feb. 20 - Mar. 20):Steer clear of disputes that have nothing to do with you. The more others try to draw you into an argument the more you must keep your distance. That applies to all areas of your life but especially to friendships and money – they don’t mix.Visit Sally at www.sallybrompton.comFor your extended forecast, call 1-900-783-8333, or 1-877-976-1414 for credit-card access. Calls cost $1.49 per minute.