Saputo, the country’s largest cheese and dairy nprocessor, plans to offset its lower profits in Canada by seeking more global nacquisitions and convincing Australian dairy farmers to boost their output.I see that our runway is still very, very long, CEO Lino Saputo Jr. said Thursday during a conference call nafter the company reported strong fourth-quarter and annual results.While he said small $100-million deals are possible in Canada, the larger ngrowth prospects for the dairy are in the fragmented United States, where it ncontrols about 10 per cent of the cheese market; Australia or new markets such nas Brazil, which is seeing a growing middle class.Saputo told analysts that deals up nto $4-billion would not be out of the question if the right opportunity came nalong.The company would also like to replicate its successful foray in Argentina by nencouraging Australian dairy farmers to feel confident about their futures and nincrease milk production. It has vowed to invest in the infrastructure of Warrnambool Cheese & Butter, which it recently nacquired for $450-million, to take on more milk. WCB is the oldest dairy in nAustralia, where seven or eight players control 90 to 95 per cent of the nindustry.A similar drive over the past decade in Argentina has seen the volume of milk nprocessed more than double and in excess of one billion litres from 400 million nlitres in 2003. Any additional organic growth in supply would be in addition to nsome smaller acquisitions.The Montreal-based company said it benefited during the fourth quarter from nhigher block cheese prices in the U.S., a lower Canadian dollar and increased ninternational volumes and prices, which offset higher costs in Canada. It said a nfocus to lower costs at home will continue as it seeks to grow volumes of basic nand specialty-type cheeses, along with higher margin flavoured milk The latest nearnings, which included the operations of Warrnambool and a previous large merger in the nU.S., helped Saputo cap off a strong year by nboosting net earnings by more than 19 per cent to $119.8-million in the final nquarter of its fiscal year. It earned 61 cents per diluted share for the period nended March 31, compared to 51 cents or $100.5-million a year earlier.Saputo incurred $9.2-million in nafter-tax acquisition costs in the quarter, $19.9-million in costs for plant nclosures in Canada and the U.S. and $3.9-million in pension related costs for nexecutives.Excluding these items, Saputo’s n(TSX:SAP) adjusted earnings attributable to shareholders were $151.9-million or n78 cents per diluted share. That was four cents better than analyst forecasts nand up from 65 cents per share a year ago.Revenues were $2.49-billion, up 21 per cent from $2.05-billion in the fourth nquarter of 2013.Saputo said the Canadian ndivision’s pre-tax operating profits (EBITDA) ndecreased 8.6 per cent to $108.9-million, despite higher revenues at n$881.4-million. Higher ingredients and operational costs offset increased sales nvolumes, in both retail and food service segments.Meanwhile, the company is consolidating its distribution activities at a new nfacility in Montreal and has announced plans to close three facilities across nthe country, which will result in about $8-million in annual savings, of which n$6-million should start next fiscal year. It will also evaluate cost-saving nopportunities from its recent acquisition of Scotsburn dairy in the Maritimes.The company’s U.S. division earned $128.2-million on $1.22-billion of nrevenues, compared with $103.1-million on $971.3-million of revenues in the nprior year.International profits soared to $40.5-million from $7.5-million as revenues ngrew 70 per cent to $384.5-million.Irene Nattel of RBC Capital Markets said nSaputo closed out the year with a bang.The outlook for fiscal 2015 suggests continuing pressure in the Canadian nsegment, but favourable outlook for both U.S. and international, she wrote in a nreport.For the full year, Saputo earned n$534-million or $2.70 per diluted share, up from $481.9-million or $2.41 per nshare in 2013.Adjusted profits attributable to shareholders for the full year were n$566.1-million or $2.87 per share. That compared to $510.6-million or $2.55 per nshare in the prior year. Revenues increased 26.5 per cent to $9.2-billion, from nnearly $7.3-billion a year earlier.On the Toronto Stock Exchange, its shares closed down 14 cents to $58.95 on nThursday.