A year ago, Barack Obama, newly re-elected and with boundless optimism, stood before a joint session of the United States Congress and opened his State of the Union Address with a remark from one of his most luminous predecessors, the man who was president when he was born. It is my task, John F. Kennedy said when Mr. Obama was six months old, to report the State of the Union – to improve it is the task of us all. Reporting the state of the Union – literally, to provide Congress with an annual report on the health of the United States – is a task as old as the country and as new as tonight, for at 9 p.m. Mr. Obama will stand at the lectern in the stately old chamber and present his report to Congress and country. It may be a sobering moment, for the president knows better than almost anyone else that in contemporary Washington there is almost no task that is, in the Kennedy formula, embraced by all.This ritual – from the announcement of the President’s presence in the chamber to the handshakes on his way out the door and the drive back down Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House, the event is dripping in ritual – was mandated by the U.S. Constitution. Over the years presidents have used the occasion to set forth the Four Freedoms (Franklin Delano Roosevelt), to declare the era of big government dead (Bill Clinton), to identify an Axis of Evil (George W. Bush) – and, fatefully for North America, to declare that the Western Hemisphere was out of bounds for European dominance (James Monroe, promulgating what now is known as the Monroe Doctrine).Customarily, presidents proclaim the state of the union strong, though last year Mr. Obama pronounced the state of the union merely stronger. Things have been worse, of course. In 1862, when the country was torn apart by Civil War and the rump of the nation that called itself the Union was struggling against the Confederate States of America, Abraham Lincoln used the occasion to warn of the stakes in the war (and, with one poignant phrase, to launch a score of book titles): We shall nobly save or meanly lose the last best hope of earth. In his remarks last year, the president saluted the Congress, saying, So, together, we have cleared away the rubble of crisis. What happened in the year that followed was instead more rubble and a deeper crisis, a year of bitter struggle that resulted in a government shutdown, though in recent weeks lawmakers have reached agreement on a spending measure.But while the state of the Union may be strong, or stronger, the state of American politics is neither, and in an election year – the entire House of Representatives and a third of the Senate will be chosen in November – Mr. Obama will almost certainly comment on the Washington zeitgeist. His likely tack: Gently chide the Republicans whom he privately reviles and blames for the capital paralysis, generously offer a hand of conciliation and compromise, and warn that the public has nothing but contempt for the way its elected officials have comported themselves in the past 12 months.The President is worried – and with reason – about those elections. The electoral map favours the Republicans, who with a pickup of only six seats would control the Senate and thus have complete dominance of Capitol Hill. This would end any hopes of the President prevailing on his priorities for his final two years in the White House and would endanger what he considers his top achievement, the health-care overhaul that now goes by the name of Obamacare.The pre-eminent context of this year’s State of the Union address is the low esteem in which the two branches of the American government is held.Congress has an approval rating of 13 per cent, according to a Gallup Poll. Mr. Obama has an approval rating of 40 per cent, close to the 38-per cent low that he has reached several times in his presidency. The American founding document, the Declaration of Independence, written in 1776, spoke of the consent of the governed. This group of national leaders does not possess it.In the course of his address tonight, Mr. Obama almost certainly will seek to put Obamacare in a long-term perspective, advocate an increase in the minimum wage, and seek to assure Americans that the economic recovery is continuing apace. He may not discuss the controversy surrounding high-tech surveillance, having addressed that earlier this month. And national security issues and Middle East peace initiatives very likely will be major elements of the address. Another sure topic: the pace of American withdrawal from Afghanistan.But do not expect bold new policy initiatives. These rarely come at the end of a presidency – Ronald Reagan’s tax overhaul of 1986 was a rare exception – and, besides, the President doesn’t have the congressional support to win approval of new programs, or indeed of much at all.But the most important element of tonight’s speech may not be programmatic at all. It may be attitudinal.Political professionals will be watching less for a laundry list of domestic or international priorities and more for subtle indications of the President’s mood: Is he weary of Washington? Is he leery of taking on the Republicans? Is he girded for the fight ahead?Mr. Obama’s mood more than anything else will be the take-away from the evening’s proceedings. Americans look for their presidents to lead them somewhere. Tonight will provide indications of where the President wants to go, or whether, tired of fighting or just plain tired, he just wants to go home in a few years’ time.David Shribman, executive editor of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, won a Pulitzer Prize for coverage of U.S. politics.