The Jim Prentice speaking circuit has run through Ottawa in recent months – a pair of relatively wonkish speeches about Canada’s energy future and failures on the environment file.Not the stuff barnburners are made of, but the ex-cabinet figure and then-CIBC-vice-chairman nonetheless still casts a long shadow in the capital – and the speeches gave an impression of a man (and rumoured aspirant to the Prime Minister’s Office) not quite done with politics.Will another gig suffice?Between Ottawa speeches, Alison Redford’s tenure as PC leader in Mr. Prentice’s home province met its unceremonious end after a long line of spending scandals. Mr. Prentice is now on the verge of formally announcing he’ll run to replace her.He is seen by many as a shoo-in – though the party’s last two front-runners saw their campaigns fail, and a poll this week showed only 33 per cent of Tory voters from the last election think Mr. Prentice is the best fit.But Mr. Prentice’s presence will scare off other contenders. Alberta MP James Rajotte, who’d been considering a bid, won’t run now, saying flatly this week that certainly [Mr. Prentice’s announcement had] a huge impact in terms of my decision, absolutely. One former provincial cabinet minister, Ken Hughes, is running. Other rumoured candidates have elected not to. Mr. Prentice may end up breaking the unlucky streak of the Alberta PC frontrunner, and become premier.Then what?The Alberta PC party is both a 43-year dynasty and a poisoned chalice. The same poll, from Insights West, put the Tories at 21 per cent in the polls, well behind the right-wing, Official Opposition Wildrose Party, at 50 per cent. Wildrose is raising more money than the PCs, even before a leadership race that will further tap Tory donors, and receipts continue to trickle out through access-to-information laws providing a series of new explosive controversies for the venerable Tories.Some in Ottawa are, as such, cautious about jumping to conclusions.Look, I know Jim, I served with Jim, I like Jim, he’s a good guy. But I honestly believe that it’s going to be a really big job for any one person to be able to change the culture of entitlement that has absolutely subsumed the PC Party of Alberta over the last couple of years, Alberta MP Brian Storseth said in an interview. Mr. Storseth is a former Tory staffer but has since backed Wildrose.It’s not my job to point out Jim’s flaws or Jim’s upsides. I think that’ll be fleshed out in the leadership. But what I do know is the trust in the PC Party of Alberta, a party I worked for for a lot of years, has really been damaged in Alberta. The trust of all politicians has kind of been damaged.Mr. Rajotte said much the same, acknowledging people flatly told him You should sort of stay away from provincial politics at the moment.One prominent Conservative, in Mr. Prentice’s hometown Calgary, said he faces a long climb even if he wins the leadership. According to the Conservative, who spoke on condition of anonymity, Mr. Prentice as premier would need to reduce the size of Alberta’s cabinet, dump toxic incumbents and staff, bring in fresh blood, revitalize the 87 electoral district associations, woo Wildrose supporters, fend off Wildrose attacks, recruit star candidates to a brand that sucks, endure the long-line of spending issues that are still trickling out, and raise money.The last point is a tall order.The party ended the last fiscal year nearly $1-million in net-debt, and raised $769,000 in the last quarter (in a province with high donation limits and where corporate donations are permitted). Wildrose, meanwhile, had $430,000 in net assets, out-raised the Tories for the year and raised $891,000 in the same quarter.In other words, Wildrose is soaring in the polls, raising more money and in far better financial shape.If Mr. Prentice – a man from the same progressive wing of the party that delivered Ms. Redford – runs and wins, he’ll have to turn that all around before the next election, expected in early 2016.Mr. Storseth said Albertans need political leaders who put them before partisanship, but said Mr. Prentice has a steep climb.Obviously he’s looked at this, but this is going to be a big job for any one person, Mr. Storseth said, adding he doesn’t have a PC membership and declining to say if he’s supporting Wildrose. Asked what profile Mr. Prentice has in Alberta, Mr. Storseth replied: I don’t know what Albertans know about him. Jim’s going to find that out pretty soon. If he does announce this, I wish him the best.Josh Wingrove is a parliamentary reporter in Ottawa.